# SPAC: Visualizing Effects of Policy Changes on Prison Populations
This is a visualization project developed for the **Illinois Sentencing Policy Advisory Council** by **TechTeam**, which is a part of the Institute of Politics at the University of Chicago. For any questions or concerns, feel free to contact **Rohan Kumar (rohankumar@uchicago.edu)**.

## Some Implementation Details
For proper functioning, you should have a working internet connection and should keep all of the following files in the same folder as `index.html`: \
\
`main.js` \
`plot.js` \
`sliders.js` \
`bootstrap-slider.min.js` \
`style.css` \
`custom.css` \
`bootstrap-slider.css` \
`bootstrap.min.css` \

The basic structure of the page is in `index.html`. The project is spread across 3 files: `main.js`, `plot.js` and `sliders.js`.

`main.js`: This module handles all calculations and data generation required for plotting. The population at any time-step is calculated according to the formula provided by SPAC. You can change the number of years to visualize by simply changing the `numYears` parameter.

`plot.js`: This module handles the plotting of the graph and the legend, as well as animations during transitions. The plot is made mainly by creating various SVGs using the D3 library. The data generated by the `main.js` module is fed into the SVGs, and native D3 animations are used for transitions. You can change the dimensions of the plot by changing the parameters at the top of the file.

`sliders.js`: This module handles the creation of the sliders as well as the slider interface. It also provides the parameters (initial size, LOS, admissions) for each type of crime to `main.js`. The initial parameters are hardcoded at the beginning of the `update` function and can be changed as needed.

Every time the sliders are moved, `sliders.js` sends the modified parameters to `main.js`, which then generates the new data and updates the plot using `plot.js`.
